I'm a lieutenant John Bell from
Champaign Illinois and I'm a bomb
attorne attic navigator for the a6
intruder which is he behind you
we're based out of the Naval Air Station
Whidbey Island up in Washington
I'm lieutenant Mark McLaughlin I'm from
Caldwell Idaho and I've been an Whidbey
Island now for just over two years and
I'm the pilot of the a-6 intruder the
mission of the a6 is to strike anywhere
any day night or day low level
all weather and that's primarily what we
did we did about 85% of our missions at
night usually the B end John would be
trying to acquire the target on a radar
so I was basically heads out of the
cockpit because they had a lot of
heat-seeking missiles and there's no ray
there's no warning inside the cockpit
for that so I have to see him visually
and we had the advantage of flying at
night where everything lights up the sky
so I could see the triple-a coming up
out off the ground I could see a SAM
missile coming up and I could just dodge
him just go around them but the
disadvantage was that I had to come back
and land on the carrier at night most of
the pressures on this guy he's the one
that has to land the ship and land the
aircraft on board and at night without
any visual reference except for just the
lights on the carrier deck it's yeah
imagine taking a you know thirty five
thousand pound aircraft to a dead stop
in two seconds when you hit and that's
quite a thrill and you can see
everything around you in the day and in
the day a cat shot you know 55,000 pound
cat shot zero to 150 in just about two
seconds there isn't a car in the world
that can do that to you so it's there's
no better ride in the world but at night
is a whole different story because the
night time you have the acceleration of
the catapult shot for that two seconds
and at night you don't see anything past
the end of the deck so you just punch
out in this black hole and you've lost
all the sense of acceleration so you
just feel like everything quit you're
not going anywhere
and your brain takes about a second and
a half to wreak age itself and the plane
is trimmed up to rotate and fly away
from the water hopefully we have the rat
out the radar altimeter set for 40 feet
because the deck is about 65 feet off
the water so if it Deedle Deedle
something's wrong and we're going to
punch out of the plane
we're standing at the aft end of the
aircraft looking at the rudder and what
our maintenance department has done has
taken the entire war record that this
aircraft is credited with and placed it
on the vertical stabilizer and in this
case we have this aircraft is positively
credited with destroying 37 tanks 16
ships and the two stars that Texico
means that it has done two tanker
missions over Iraq a lot of people ask
us what it is and that's just the war
record that our squadron has done with
this plane during the forty three days
of Operation Desert Storm